Get to Know US Privacy Law

Privacy Act :
The Privacy Act governs federal governmental agencies’ collection, maintenance, use, and disclosure of personally identifiable information stored in their records.

Sectoral approach to privacy regulations :
The US has implemented laws that focus on certain industries or data types that are particularly sensitive and therefore require more protection.
This approach is in contrast to the comprehensive approach, which is what the EU follows, where broad privacy laws apply to all industries and data types.

Industry-specific agencies for US Privacy Law :
The Department of Health and Human Services typically regulates the healthcare industry.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Federal Reserve, and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency typically regulate the financial services industry.

Primary agency for US Privacy Law :
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) was created to prevent unfair competition in commerce, and its role expanded to general consumer protection.
The agency focuses on the practice of companies posting but not adhering to a website privacy notice as a deceptive practice.

Enforcement action :
A legal action that the FTC brings before an administrative law judge.  It can proceed through trial and result in a judicial decision, but most often, an FTCs privacy enforcement action is resolved before trial through a consent decree.

Consent decree :
A consent decree is like a settlement agreement, where all parties (usually the FTC and the defendant) agree to the terms of the decree in exchange for the FTC ending the investigation or action.

Five Fair Information Practice Principles :
Provide notice about their privacy policies and procedures to their users and customers.
Describe the choices available to individuals and obtain consent for collection or use of personal information.
Provide individuals with access to their collected personal information.
Properly secure and ensure the integrity of the collected information.
Monitor compliance with their privacy policies and provide means to address concerns or complaints.

Poor security practices cited by the FTC include failures to :
Provide notice about their privacy policies and procedures to their users and customers
Describe the choices available to individuals and obtain consent for collection or use of personal information
Provide individuals with access to their collected personal information
Properly secure and ensure the integrity of the collected information
Monitor compliance with their privacy policies and provide means to address concerns or complaints

Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN-SPAM) :
Commercial emails distributed primarily to promote a product or service must meet certain requirements, i.e. commercial emails must have a clear, accurate subject line, disclosure of the email’s promotional nature, a means for the recipient to opt out.

Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) :
COPPA regulates commercial websites or online services, like mobile apps, that are directed at children under 13 or that knowingly collect children’s personal information.

Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) :
ECPA regulates the collection and use of phone, text, and other online communications when they are made, transmitted, or stored electronically.

Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA) and Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) :
Both of these laws regulate the creation and use of consumer reports.
FACTA also regulates the disposal of these reports.
It also requires that certain financial businesses implement policies to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft.

Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) :
FERPA places restrictions on how educational institutions that receive federal funding can divulge student records.

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) :
GLBA regulates US companies and their affiliates engaged in providing financial products or services to consumers.
GLBA requires these companies to provide initial and annual privacy notices that outline their data  collection, use, and disclosure practices.

Health Insurance Portability and Accountablity Act (HIPAA) :
The Privacy Act governs federal governmental agencies’ collection, maintenance, use, and disclosure of personally identifiable information stored in their records.

Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) :
TCPA regulates and restricts telemarketing solicitations and the use of automatic telephone equipment, such as automatic dialing systems and pre recorded messages.

