Learn Privacy Law for the Healthcare Industry

Privacy, Security, and Breach Notification Rules :
PHI : Protected health information.
The Privacy Rule governs the collection , use, storage, and disclosure of PHI.
The security Rule addresses how to properly secure PHI.
The Breach Notification Rule requires certain notifications when unsecured PHI is breached.

Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) :
The HHS issued the Privacy, Security, and Breach Notification Rules to protect PHI.
HHS also created the Office of Civil Rights and granted it the authority and responsibility to enforce these rules, whether through securing voluntary compliance or imposing monetary penalties.

HIPAA directly applies to "covered entities" :
Healthcare providers who transmit PHI in electronic form in connection with certain standard transactions, i.e. hospital, doctor’s office, nursing home, pharmacy.
Healthcare plans, i.e. insurance company.
Healthcare clearinghouses, i.e. third-party billing companies.

Business associate : 
A person or entity outside the covered entity’s workforce that provides services to a covered entity that involve the creation, receipt, maintenance, or transmission of PHI.

The Privacy Rule includes the rights of individuals to :
Access their own PHI.
Direct the disclosure of their PHI to a third party.
Request amendment of inaccurate or incomplete PHI.
Receive a list of the PHI disclosures made by the covered entity.
Request restrictions on the use or disclosure of their PHI.
Request specific requirements or restrictions on the means of communication of their PHI.

Business associate agreement :
A written arrangement that explicitly describes the ways the business associate may use or disclose the PHI.

The Security Rule establishes that a covered entity must take reasonable steps to :
Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all e-PHI.
Design and implement policies and procedures to limit access to e-PHI.
Train employees and ensure that they comply with internal policies.
Regularly perform risk analysis and implement remediating security measures.
Identify and protect against reasonably anticipated threats to the security or integrity of the e-PHI.

Consequences for noncompliance with HIPAA :
Failure to comply can result in investigation and enforcement actions by HHS or state attorneys general.
When a covered entity fails to comply with HIPAA, the HHS Office of Civil Rights first seeks voluntary compliance with its rules. 
The office has the power to issue civil monetary penalties.
The Department of Justice has the authority to prosecute anyone who knowingly obtains or disclose PHI in violation of the Privacy Rule.


