1. Which government agency regulates compliance with and enforces HIPAA?
    A	The HHS Office of Civil Rights
    B	The Office of Health and Safety
    C	The Health Information Privacy Authority
    D	The Privacy Regulation Authority

2. HIPAA can apply to which of these organizations?
    A	Healthcare advertising agencies
    B	Health insurance companies
    C	Pharmacies
    D	Health advisory committees
    E	B and C

3. Which of the following is a data subject right that must be included in a notice of privacy practices?
    A	The right to ask to amend inaccurate information
    B	The right to access family members' information
    C	The right to a list of disclosures made by the covered entity
    D	A and C
    E	B and C

4. A consumer reporting agency is:
    A	An agency that collects consumer evaulations of products
    B	An entity that evaluates personal information to create consumer reports
    C	A securities firm
    D	An entity that uses consumer reports to make a decision about an individual

5. An entity regulated by the New York Department of Financial Services must abide by which of the following obligations?
    A	Conduct risk assessments and produce annual reports
    B	Encrypt all customer data
    C	Provide notice to consumers regarding use of consumer reports
    D	Store all customer data within the state of New York

6. A business is required to notify individuals of a data breach if which of the following pieces of information is inadvertently exposed?
    A	Employee ID
    B	Date of birth
    C	Driver's license number
    D	Mother's maiden name
    E	State of residence

7. The California Online Privacy Protection Act (CalOPPA) requires that commercial website operators do what?
    A	Restrict use of their website to adults
    B	Disclose what personal information they collect about a specified user
    C	Implement safeguards to protect personal information stored online
    D	Post a privacy policy detailing the categories of personal information their website collects

8. Salesforce codifies its privacy commitments regarding its customers' data in which document?
    A	The Data Processing Addendum
    B	The Services Agreement
    C	The Website Privacy Policy
    D	The Business Associate Agreement

